RESOLUTION 600b(*)
Air Waybill—Conditions of Contract


CSC(32)600b                                 Expiry: Indefinite
                                            Type: B

RESOLVED that:
The following Conditions of Contract and Notices be included on an Air Waybill(1).


I. NOTICE APPEARING ON THE FACE OF THE AIR WAYBILL
It is agreed that the goods described herein are accepted in apparent good order and condition (except as
noted) for carriage SUBJECT TO THE CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT ON THE REVERSE HEREOF. ALL
GOODS MAY BE CARRIED BY ANY OTHER MEANS INCLUDING ROAD OR ANY OTHER CARRIER
UNLESS SPECIFIC CONTRARY INSTRUCTIONS ARE GIVEN HEREON BY THE SHIPPER, AND
SHIPPER AGREES THAT THE SHIPMENT MAY BE CARRIED VIA INTERMEDIATE STOPPING PLACES
WHICH THE CARRIER DEEMS APPROPRIATE. THE SHIPPER'S ATTENTION IS DRAWN TO THE
NOTICE CONCERNING CARRIER'S LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. Shipper may increase such limitation of
liability by declaring a higher value for carriage and paying a supplemental charge if required.


II. CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT ON REVERSE SIDE OF THE AIR
WAYBILL

NOTICE CONCERNING CARRIER'S LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

If the carriage involves an ultimate destination or stop in a country other than the country of departure, the
Montreal Convention or the Warsaw Convention may be applicable to the liability of the Carrier in respect of
loss of, damage or delay to cargo. Carrier's limitation of liability in accordance with those Conventions shall
be as set forth in subparagraph 4 unless a higher value is declared.


CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT

1. In this contract and the Notices appearing hereon:
CARRIER includes the air carrier issuing this air waybill and all carriers that carry or undertake to carry the
cargo or perform any other services related to such carriage.
SPECIAL DRAWING RIGHT (SDR) is a Special Drawing Right as defined by the International Monetary
Fund.
WARSAW CONVENTION means whichever of the following instruments is applicable to the contract of
carriage:
the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules Relating to International Carriage by Air, signed at
Warsaw, 12 October 1929;
that Convention as amended at The Hague on 28 September 1955;
that Convention as amended at The Hague 1955 and by Montreal Protocol No. 1, 2, or 4 (1975) as the case
may be.
MONTREAL CONVENTION means the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules for International
Carriage by Air, done at Montreal on 28 May 1999.
2./2.1 Carriage is subject to the rules relating to liability established by the Warsaw Convention or the
Montreal Convention unless such carriage is not “international carriage” as defined by the applicable
Conventions.
2.2 To the extent not in conflict with the foregoing, carriage and other related services performed by each
Carrier are subject to:
2.2.1 applicable laws and government regulations;
2.2.2 provisions contained in the air waybill, Carrier's conditions of carriage and related rules, regulations,
and timetables (but not the times of departure and arrival stated therein) and applicable tariffs of such
Carrier, which are made part hereof, and which may be inspected at any airports or other cargo sales
offices from which it operates regular services. When carriage is to/from the USA, the shipper and the
consignee are entitled, upon request, to receive a free copy of the Carrier's conditions of carriage. The
Carrier's conditions of carriage include, but are not limited to:
2.2.2.1 limits on the Carrier's liability for loss, damage or delay of goods, including fragile or perishable
goods;
2.2.2.2 claims restrictions, including time periods within which shippers or consignees must file a claim or
bring an action against the Carrier for its acts or omissions, or those of its agents;
2.2.2.3 rights, if any, of the Carrier to change the terms of the contract;
2.2.2.4 rules about Carrier's right to refuse to carry;
2.2.2.5 rights of the Carrier and limitations concerning delay or failure to perform service, including schedule
changes, substitution of alternate Carrier or aircraft and rerouting.
3. The agreed stopping places (which may be altered by Carrier in case of necessity) are those places,
except the place of departure and place of destination, set forth on the face hereof or shown in Carrier's
timetables as scheduled stopping places for the route. Carriage to be performed hereunder by several
successive Carriers is regarded as a single operation.
4. For carriage to which the Montreal Convention does not apply, Carrier's liability limitation for cargo lost,
damaged or delayed shall be 22 SDRs per kilogram unless a greater per kilogram monetary limit is provided
in any applicable Convention or in Carrier's tariffs or general conditions of carriage.
5./5.1 Except when the Carrier has extended credit to the consignee without the written consent of the
shipper, the shipper guarantees payment of all charges for the carriage due in accordance with Carrier's
tariff, conditions of carriage and related regulations, applicable laws (including national laws implementing
the Warsaw Convention and the Montreal Convention), government regulations, orders and requirements.
5.2 When no part of the consignment is delivered, a claim with respect to such consignment will be
considered even though transportation charges thereon are unpaid.
6./6.1 For cargo accepted for carriage, the Warsaw Convention and the Montreal Convention permit shipper
to increase the limitation of liability by declaring a higher value for carriage and paying a supplemental
charge if required.
6.2 In carriage to which neither the Warsaw Convention nor the Montreal Convention applies Carrier shall,
in accordance with the procedures set forth in its general conditions of carriage and applicable tariffs, permit
shipper to increase the limitation of liability by declaring a higher value for carriage and paying a
supplemental charge if so required.
7./7.1 In cases of loss of, damage or delay to part of the cargo, the weight to be taken into account in
determining Carrier's limit of liability shall be only the weight of the package or packages concerned.
7.2 Notwithstanding any other provisions, for “foreign air transportation” as defined by the U.S.
Transportation Code:
7.2.1 in the case of loss of, damage or delay to a shipment, the weight to be used in determining Carrier's
limit of liability shall be the weight which is used to determine the charge for carriage of such shipment; and
7.2.2 in the case of loss of, damage or delay to a part of a shipment, the shipment weight in 7.2.1 shall be
prorated to the packages covered by the same air waybill whose value is affected by the loss, damage or
delay. The weight applicable in the case of loss or damage to one or more articles in a package shall be the
weight of the entire package.
8. Any exclusion or limitation of liability applicable to Carrier shall apply to Carrier's agents, employees, and
representatives and to any person whose aircraft or equipment is used by Carrier for carriage and such
person's agents, employees and representatives.
9. Carrier undertakes to complete the carriage with reasonable dispatch. Where permitted by applicable
laws, tariffs and government regulations, Carrier may use alternative carriers, aircraft or modes of transport
without notice but with due regard to the interests of the shipper. Carrier is authorized by the shipper to
select the routing and all intermediate stopping places that it deems appropriate or to change or deviate
from the routing shown on the face hereof.
10. Receipt by the person entitled to delivery of the cargo without complaint shall be prima facie evidence
that the cargo has been delivered in good condition and in accordance with the contract of carriage.
10.1 In the case of loss of, damage or delay to cargo a written complaint must be made to Carrier by the
person entitled to delivery. Such complaint must be made:
10.1.1 in the case of damage to the cargo, immediately after discovery of the damage and at the latest
within 14 days from the date of receipt of the cargo;
10.1.2 in the case of delay, within 21 days from the date on which the cargo was placed at the disposal of
the person entitled to delivery;
10.1.3 in the case of non-delivery of the cargo, within 120 days from the date of issue of the air waybill, or if
an air waybill has not been issued, within 120 days from the date of receipt of the cargo for transportation by
the Carrier.
10.2 Such complaint may be made to the Carrier whose air waybill was used, or to the first Carrier or to the
last Carrier or to the Carrier, which performed the carriage during which the loss, damage or delay took
place.
10.3 Unless a written complaint is made within the time limits specified in 10.1 no action may be brought
against Carrier.
10.4 Any rights to damages against Carrier shall be extinguished unless an action is brought within two
years from the date of arrival at the destination, or from the date on which the aircraft ought to have arrived,
or from the date on which the carriage stopped.
11. Shipper shall comply with all applicable laws and government regulations of any country to or from
which the cargo may be carried, including those relating to the packing, carriage or delivery of the cargo,
and shall furnish such information and attach such documents to the air waybill as may be necessary to
comply with such laws and regulations. Carrier is not liable to shipper and shipper shall indemnify Carrier for
loss or expense due to shipper's failure to comply with this provision.
12. No agent, employee or representative of Carrier has authority to alter, modify or waive any provisions of
this contract.


*: * This Resolution is in the hands of all IATA Cargo Agents.
1: 1 In order to ensure consistency with any future changes in liability limits for loss of, damage, or delay to
cargo under Article 24 of the Montreal Convention, the IATA Secretariat is authorized to conform the
provisions of this Resolution 600b (and any other affected Cargo Services Conference Resolutions or
Recommended Practices) to such changes without further Conference action. Conforming changes shall
take effect on the date specified in written notice to Members by the IATA Secretariat which shall include a
copy of the revised Resolution.
