--- PAGE 4 ---
RESOLUTION 600a (*) - Air Waybill
CSC(31)600a* Expiry: Indefinite
Type: B
RESOLVED that:
1. For international transportation of cargo, IATA Members shall use an air waybill as set forth in
Attachments ‘A’ and ‘B’ or a shipment record as defined in Resolution 600f.
2. The air waybill is a document which shall be either an air waybill referred to as an “airline air waybill”, with
preprinted issuing carrier identification, or an air waybill referred to as a “neutral air waybill” without preprinted
identification of the issuing carrier in any form and used by other than an air carrier.
3. The issuing carrier is either:
3.1 in the case of an “airline air waybill”, the carrier whose form is used; or
3.2 in the case of a “neutral air waybill”, the carrier whose name, three-digit IATA airline code number, and air
waybill serial number has been printed onto the document by the issuing agent or forwarder.
4. Neutral air waybills shall not be used except when completed by a computer system.
5. Proposals to amend the air waybill may be submitted to the Secretary, Cargo Services Conference at any
time. Such proposals shall be circulated to all members of the Cargo Business Processes Panel for
consideration and agreement.
6. If agreed, such proposals shall be circulated to all Members by Notice of Amendment in accordance with the
procedures detailed in Resolution 601.
7. Amendments agreed to Attachment ‘A’ need not be put into effect until the time of next printing of the air
waybill but in no event later than 18 months after the declaration of effectiveness of these amendments.
8. Air waybill completion examples in The Air Cargo Tariff and Rules (TACT), published separately shall be
developed by the Secretariat in accordance with the procedures in Attachment ‘B’ hereto and current tariff rules.
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘A’ - AIR WAYBILL—TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 The air waybill is a document which shall be either an air waybill referred to as an “airline air waybill”, with
preprinted issuing carrier identification, or an air waybill referred to as a “neutral air waybill” without preprinted
identification of the issuing carrier in any form and used by other than an air carrier.
2. MEASUREMENTS OF THE AIR WAYBILL
The outside measurements of the air waybill shall be between 208 mm (8.2 in) and 230 mm (9 in) in width and
between 274 mm (10.8 in) and 305 mm (12 in) in length. The size of the boxes and their distances from the
upper left hand paper edges shall be maintained exactly as shown in Appendix ‘A’.
3. DESCRIPTION OF THE AIRLINE AIR WAYBILL SET
The airline air waybill set shall be printed as specified below:
3.1 the Original 3 (for Shipper) shall have the same layout, wording and shading as specified in Appendix ‘B’;
3.2 the Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt) shall have the same layout, wording and shading as specified in Appendix
‘C’;
3.3 the Original 1 (for Issuing Carrier) and Original 2 (for Consignee) shall have the same layout, wording and
shading as specified in Appendix ‘D’;
3.4 all other copies shall have the same layout, wording and shading as specified in Appendix ‘E’;
3.5 the airline air waybill shall be in a set of a minimum of eight copies and shall be marked in the order shown.
Colour is optional and airlines shall accept both coloured and non-coloured coded air waybills.
If using colour, copies shall be either coloured paper or white paper with appropriate colour ink imprinted
thereon, as referred above;
3.6 additional copies, having the same layout, wording and shading as Appendix ‘E’, may be included in the
airline air waybill set to a maximum of five copies. These must be printed on white paper marked “Copy XX
(Extra copy for Carrier)”, where XX denotes the number of the copy of the airline air waybill, and may be placed
anywhere in the airline air waybill set following Original 1 (for Issuing Carrier);
3.7 notwithstanding the provisions of 3.5 and 3.6, when an air carrier uses an automated system to issue the
airline air waybill:
3.7.1 the airline air waybill shall be executed in a set which includes at least the three original copies,
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
3.7.2 further copies of the airline air waybill may be produced by automated means at origin, en route or at
destination as required,
3.7.3 upon interline transfer,
3.7.3.1 when the exchange of a shipment record is not possible, at least five copies, of which one copy is
entitled “Original 2 (for Consignee)” and one copy is entitled “Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt)”, shall be provided to
the onward carrier,
3.7.3.2 when the exchange of a shipment record is possible, it is not required that copies of an air waybill be
provided to the onward carrier. However the carriers involved must agree to adhere to the provisions of
Resolution 600f.
4. DESCRIPTION OF THE NEUTRAL AIR WAYBILL SET
The neutral air waybill set shall be printed as specified below:
4.1 the Original 3 (for Shipper) shall have the same layout, wording and shading as specified in Appendix ‘B’;
4.2 the Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt) shall have the same layout, wording and shading as specified in Appendix
‘C’;
4.3 the Original 1 (for Issuing Carrier) and Original 2 (for Consignee) shall have the same layout, wording and
shading as specified in Appendix ‘D’;
4.4 all other copies shall have the same layout, wording and shading as specified in Appendix ‘E’;
4.5 the neutral air waybill shall be either in a set of a minimum of eight copies in the order and marked as shown
in 4.5.1; or in two sets of a minimum of four copies each in the order and marked as shown in 4.5.2. Colour is
optional and airlines shall accept both coloured and non-coloured coded air waybills. If using colour, copies
shall be either coloured paper or white paper with appropriate colour ink imprinted thereon, as referred to below;
4.5.1 one set of eight copies:
4.5.2 two sets of four copies each:
First set
Second set
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
4.6 paper and carbon, where used, shall be of such quality that all copies are clearly legible;
4.7 fastening or stub shall:
4.7.1 hold the neutral air waybill set together so that it does not disintegrate into loose sheets of paper during
normal handling, and
4.7.2 be precut and of such nature that copies can be pulled easily and that when a part is pulled, the page
does not tear apart.
5. DESCRIPTION OF THE FACE OF THE AIRLINE AIR WAYBILL
5.1 In addition to the information as illustrated in Appendices ‘B’–‘E’:
5.1.1 the air waybill number shall be placed in the upper left corner, in the upper right corner and in the lower
right corner of all copies of the airline air waybill as shown in Appendix ‘A’;
5.1.2 the air waybill number shall consist of the issuing carrier's three-digit IATA airline code number and a
serial number of eight digits including a check digit placed in the extreme right hand position;
5.1.3 the check digit shall be determined by using the unweighted Modulus 7 system;
5.1.4 the serial number shall be of the same size, similar style of type (font) and of the same boldness as the
airline code number;
5.1.5 a separating hyphen placed between the airline code number and the serial number shall be used for the
number shown in the upper right corner and in the lower right corner;
5.1.6 in the Shipper's Certification box, the part of the statement referring to the Dangerous Goods Regulations
from the word “insofar …” shall be printed in bold type.
5.2 In addition to the information illustrated in Appendices ‘B’–‘E’, the following features may also be shown at
carrier's option:
5.2.1 a space may be inserted in the serial number of the airline air waybill between the fourth and fifth digits;
5.2.2 carrier's insignia may be printed in the issuing carrier's name and address box;
5.2.3 the notice containing reference to the carrier's Conditions of Contract may be printed on all copies which
are not originals except Copy 4 (Delivery Receipt);
5.2.4 the space in the box below the reference to the carrier's Conditions of Contract, may be used to print
other related statements as may be necessary to conform to national requirements;
5.2.5 “Requested Flight/Date” box may be without title;
5.2.6 the words “Also Notify” may be printed after the title of the “Accounting Information” box (applicable for
domestic transportation only);
5.2.7 the “Amount of Insurance” box and adjacent “Insurance” clause box may be shaded and without title or
printing of clause;
5.2.8 a box titled “TC” (for Transaction Correction), the size of which is limited to two characters and located to
the right of the “Insurance” clause box, may be provided;
5.2.9 “Handling Information” box may include the printing of not more than five subtitles. A box titled “SCI” (for
Special Customs Information), with dimensions of 8 mm × 30 mm (0.3149 in × 1.1811 in), is to be inserted in
the bottom right corner of this box (insertion of this box is mandatory);
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
5.2.10 when the air waybill is issued in the United States, the statement “These commodities, technology or
software were exported from the United States in accordance with the Export Administration Regulations.
Diversion contrary to USA law prohibited” may be printed in the “Handling Information” box;
5.2.11 the description of the charges/fees frequently incurred may be printed in the first two lines of the “Other
Charges” box;
5.2.12 “Tax” boxes may be shaded and without title;
5.2.13 any special services provided may be printed in the shaded boxes below the “Total Other Charges Due
Carrier” boxes;
5.2.14 language(s) or an annotation may be printed at the bottom of the air waybill indicating that the wording
of the form is available in another language and where it may be obtained;
5.2.15 bar coded air waybill numbers, if used, shall be printed in accordance with Recommended Practice
1600t and shall be shown in at least one of the locations illustrated in Appendix ‘F’.
Note:
For air waybills produced on U.S. Letter Size paper, the lower right corner cannot apply due to space limitation;
5.2.16 the three “Optional Shipping Information” boxes may be shaded and without title. Insertion of these
boxes is mandatory;
5.2.17 nothing additional may be printed and/or overprinted on the airline air waybill.
6. DESCRIPTION OF THE FACE OF THE NEUTRAL AIR WAYBILL
6.1 In addition to the information as illustrated in Appendices ‘B’–‘E’:
6.1.1 in the Shipper's Certification box, the part of the statement referring to the Dangerous Goods Regulations
from the word “insofar …” shall be printed in bold type;
6.1.2 the printer's reference shall be printed in the lower left corner of all copies of the neutral air waybill in the
following sequence:
6.1.2.1 printer's name,
6.1.2.2 production reference number,
6.1.2.3 production date;
6.1.3 the content of the following neutral air waybill boxes may be printed:
6.1.3.1 issuing carrier's agent, name and city box with the issuing carrier's agent's name and city,
6.1.3.2 agent's IATA code box with the agent's IATA code number,
6.1.3.3 signature of shipper or his agent box with the agent's name.
6.2 Nothing additional may be printed and/or overprinted on the neutral air waybill.
7. DESCRIPTION OF THE REVERSE SIDE OF THE AIRLINE AND NEUTRAL
AIR WAYBILL
7.1 The currently effective IATA Conditions of Contract shall be printed on a minimum of the three Original
copies of the airline and neutral air waybill.
7.2 Domestic Conditions of Contract, separate from the currently effective IATA Conditions of Contract, may
additionally be printed on the airline air waybill at carrier's option.
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘A’ Appendix ‘A’
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘A’ Appendix ‘B’
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘A’ Appendix ‘C’
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘A’ Appendix ‘D’
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘A’ Appendix ‘E’
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘A’ Appendix ‘F/1’
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘A’ Appendix ‘F/2’
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘A’ Appendix ‘F’
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘B’ - COMPLETION, DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION OF
THE AIR WAYBILL
1. GENERAL
1.1 The air waybill is a document which shall be either an air waybill referred to as an “airline air waybill”, with
preprinted issuing carrier identification, or an air waybill referred to as a “neutral air waybill” without preprinted
identification of the issuing carrier in any form and used by other than an air carrier.
1.2 The issuing carrier or its agent shall ensure that, upon execution of the air waybill, all necessary entries are
made.
1.2.1 Any amendments (including additions) to information shown or required on the air waybill, made by any
participating carrier subsequent to initial issue, must be made on all remaining copies of the air waybill and
must properly identify the carrier making such amendments. Identification of the carrier must be placed as
closely as possible to the item(s) amended without obliterating any other information. Such identification shall
include the official IATA airline name or designator and the IATA location identifier of the airport or city to show
the place where the amendments are made. Amendments to the air waybill amounts shall be in accordance
with Resolution 612.
1.3 When a consignment is returned because of non-delivery, the new air waybill for the returning carriage shall
have:
1.3.1 the original air waybill number inserted in the “Accounting Information” box;
1.3.2 all charges which should have been, but were not collected from the original consignee, inserted in the
“Other Charges” box and the total inserted in the “Total Other Charges Due Carrier” box of the “Collect” column.
1.4 The issuing carrier shall not insert or permit insertion on the air waybill of any instruction that charges shown
as to be collected from the consignee are to be collected from any person other than from the consignee;
provided that this shall not prevent payment of such charges by such other person on behalf of the consignee
to the collecting carrier.
1.5 In the case of a neutral air waybill, the party completing it on behalf of the issuing carrier shall first ensure
that its use has been authorized by the issuing carrier.
2. COMPLETION OF THE AIR WAYBILL
The boxes on the face of the air waybill shall be completed correctly. See the IATA Air Waybill Handbook
(Attachment ‘B’, Appendix ‘C’), published separately.
The boxes shaded and with title are for carrier's use only.
The boxes shaded and without title shall not be used.
The circled numbers to the right of the titles and any bracketed numbers in the following text, correspond with
the numbers in the boxes of the specimen air waybill illustrated in Appendix ‘A’.
2.1 Air Waybill Number
When not preprinted, the air waybill number provided by the issuing carrier shall be inserted in the upper left
corner, in the upper right corner and in the lower right corner. The air waybill number shall have dimensions
sufficient to make it readable and shall consist of:
2.1.1 Airline Code Number
The issuing carrier's three-digit IATA airline code number shall be inserted.
17

--- PAGE 30 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘B’ Appendix ‘A
30

--- PAGE 31 ---
RESOLUTION 600a
Attachment ‘B’ Appendix ‘B’
ALTERNATIVE RATE CLASS LINE ENTRIES (see 2.18)
No. of Nature and
Pieces Gross kg Rate Commodity Chargeable Quantity of
RCP Weight lb Class Item No. Weight Rate/Charge Total Goods
(22A) (22B) (22C) (22D) (22E) (22F) (22G) (22H) (22I)
No. of Gross K Chargeable Minimum Nature
pieces weight or L M — weight charge Box 22G of goods
No. of Gross K Chargeable Rate per unit Box 22F× Nature
pieces weight or L N — weight of weight Box 22G of goods
No. of Gross K Chargeable Rate per unit Box 22F× Nature
pieces weight or L Q — weight of weight Box 22G of goods
No. of Gross Chargeable Nature
pieces weight K B — weight Basic charge Box 22G of goods
Chargeable Rate per Box 22F× Nature
— — — K — weight kilogram Box 22G of goods
No. of Gross K Commodity Chargeable Rate per unit Box 22F× Nature
pieces weight or L C item number weight of weight Box 22G of goods
Applicable rate class
code followed by
No. of Gross K reduced percentage Chargeable Reduced Nature
pieces weight or L R applicable to charge weight charge Box 22G of goods
Applicable rate class
code followed by Reduced
No. of Gross K reduced percentage Chargeable rate per unit Box 22F× Nature
pieces weight or L R applicable to rate weight of weight Box 22G of goods
Applicable rate class
code followed by
No. of Gross K increased percentage Chargeable Surcharged Nature
pieces weight or L S applicable to charge weight charge Box 22G of goods
Applicable rate class
code followed by Surcharged
No. of Gross K increased percentage Chargeable rate per unit Box 22F× Nature
pieces weight or L S applicable to rate weight of weight Box 22G of goods
No. of Gross K Chargeable Rate per unit Box 22F× Nature
pieces weight or L U Commodity item number weight of weight Box 22G of goods
No. of Gross K Nature
pieces weight or L U Commodity item number Pivot weight Pivot charge Box 22G of goods
No. of Gross K Chargeable Nature
pieces weight or L U Commodity item number weight Flat charge Box 22G of goods
Weight in Over pivot
excess of rate per Box 22F× Nature
— — — E — pivot weight unit of weight Box 22G of goods
ULD ULD tare
tare ULD rate weight ULD ID
— weight — X class type allowance — — code
A minus
symbol
followed by
Chargeable ULD flat Nature
— — — Y — weight discount Box 22G of goods
A minus
symbol
followed by
ULD discount
Chargeable per unit Box 22F× Nature
— — — Y — weight of weight Box 22G of goods
Weight
K Gross increase per Box 22F× Nature
— — or L W — weight unit of weight Box 22G of goods
Rate
combination
point Boxes 22B to 22I to be completed when applicable. Cannot be placed as first rating line entry.
22J 22K — — — — — 22L 22I
Total Total
Number gross Total Nature
of pieces weight — — — — — charge of goods
31

